#summary Preliminary Back Story for GMR
#labels Phase-Design

= Introduction =

This is a Preliminary back story for GMR, with the intent of adding more content in the future.


= Details =

When the Creator was still strong, he made 15 followers and gave them to his Children, the humans. The Given, as they were called, were strong, smart and immortal. They made the land strong and pushed civilization further than any would dream. But, as time passed, the Given began to fight one another for power and used humans as their slaves and war fodder. Such meaningless squabbles eventually led to the collapse of the world.  It was said that at their creation the Given could not be killed, but they had forsaken their Creator and turned their back on their meaning to exist, and thus they lost all of their Creator-given powers. But even without the backing of a god, the Given were still powerful, able to manipulate the masses and transform their bodies into great war machines by tapping into the language of the Creator, Magic.  Henceforth the Given would be called the Forlorn, for such was their fall from power. 

A great war erupted across the world.  With this new weakness of the Forlorn, humans threw off their shackles and started what would eventually be called the Red Redemption.  For hundreds of years humans fought the armies of the Forlorn, creatures born from humans and Magic, but only succeeded in destroying the world itself, and pushing technology and innovation backwards millennia into the past.

But, a hero was born that would fuel new fire into the war.  Lan Fyre- a boy of no more than 14- had killed a Given with nothing more than a bow and arrow.  The abilities of Forlorn were draining away after so many years of use.  A great witch hunt and a revival of the war began and after only 3 months, 2 more Forlorn were killed.  Now numbering only 12, the Forlorn went into hiding.  They horded all remaining magical abilities and used it sparingly and defensively.  Humans had finally won the war.

Humans realized that the threat still remained, and so the Watchers were born and tasked with the job of seeking out and destroying all Forlorn and every incantation of Magic from the world.  Knights from across the world banded together and seek out the Forlorn and their agents.

On an island far from the mainland, a group of people were fortunate not to be included in the bloodshed of the Red Redemption and still retain their grasp of technology.  But, as the population of the island increases, they are having a harder and harder time of coming up with creative ways to feed and provide for everyone.  Now, the Children of Sarme are on a path for expansion and the only place to find new land is by taking it from the humans on the mainland.

In the desert of the Waste, a tribe of humans have stumbled upon an ancient speaking cat tribe that claims to be the final gift from the Creator before his hibernation.  Hundreds flock to the desert to worship the cats and pledge their souls to the New Path. 