#summary Descriptions of the factions in the default GalaxyMage game world.

== Forlorn ==

Magic-Lovers. Pretty much self-explanatory.  They use Magic, or we 
could say "Dark Magic" if we decide to add more factions that use 
different types of magic  Their attacks will be typical magic-style 
animations - flame bursts, lightning strikes, etc. but with some 
creativity, of course.  I don't want to recycle old ideas.

== Children of Sarame ==

Technology-Users.  Their attack animations would be explosions, 
grenades, gunpowder weapons, etc.  We could go far ahead in tech and 
say lasers too, but I wanted them to be closer to something.. 
steampunk.. somewhere around after the industrial revolution.

== Templars ==

Zealots.  This is the tough one.  How do we make normal 
humans look awesome when attacking?  I think the best bet is to have 
it where they go into "berserk" mode during a battle letting them 
increase their own stats like speed, attack, move etc.  The Commanders 
could also use these abilities on others, effectively making the 
Commander into a kind of braveheart style hero.  Also we could 
abilities that let them hit more than once, do spin attacks, and do 
more damage when there is more troops around them, etc.  But the 
Watchers may seem boring to some because they won't have alot of over- 
the-top style attacks like the other factions.  Maybe we let them have 
some sort of war machines (catapults,etc).  I dunno, let me know what 
you think. Maybe the Watcher could be the standard "beginner" faction 
that is pretty much straight-forward to play (walk up to enemy and 
attack). 
 
== Wastemen ==

Chakra-Practitioners.  Wastemen have honed their bodies to super-human 
levels and so are able to do things that normal humans are unable to 
do.  Battle animations include jumping great distances, over-the-top 
physical attacks (example: most animations in Disgaea, ninja movies). 
We could include attacks that let them push enemies across a distance, 
magic-like abilities (explosions, etc.) and also attacks that have a 
cat-like look (claw gloves raking back and forth).