#summary Back-story for the default GalaxyMage game world.

= The History =

Not much is known about how the war started.  Legends say that the 
Forlorn were great soldiers who came across an ancient evil magic, 
others state that they were demons come from hell to punish the world 
of its sins.  What is known is that they burned the world for 
centuries, destroying all in their path with hatred previously 
unknown.

Humans fought and defended, but with each Forlorn beast they killed, 3 
more took it's place.  After centuries of fighting, the remaining 
human forces were distressed.  They were holed up in caves in the 
mountains with little hope of surviving another day.  But, just when 
desperation had reached a critical point, something great happened. 
The Forlorn were weakening for some reason that has not been 
discovered, causing nearly all of their subordinates to drop to 
ground, dead all across the continent.  The humans fought back with 
renewed fervor, pushing the Forlorn all the way back to the Western 
Island and destroying the bridge behind them.  This is known as the 
Red Redemption.

Humans realized that the threat still remained, and so the Watchers 
were born and tasked by the remaining human residents with the job of 
seeking out and destroying all Forlorn and every incantation of their 
Dark Magic from the world.  Knights from across the world banded 
together and seek out the Forlorn and their agents. 
During the Red Redemption, on an island far from the mainland, a group 
of people were fortunate not to be included in the bloodshed of the 
Red Redemption and retained their grasp of technology that was lost 
centuries before the fighting began.  But, as the population of the 
island increased, they have had a harder and harder time of coming up 
with creative ways to feed and provide for the populace.  Now, the 
Children of Sarme are on a path for expansion and the only place to 
find new land is by taking it from the humans on the mainland. 
In the desert of the Waste, a tribe of humans stumbled upon an ancient 
speaking cat tribe.  Hundreds flock to the desert to worship the 
Tykon'long and pledge their souls to the New Path, a manuscript found 
that, supposedly, reveals the secrets to the future.  The Wastemen 
train with the cats, honing their fighting abilities to near human 
perfection and discovering their inner chakra to better prepare 
themselves for what they believe to be an oncoming apocalypse.

A war is coming. 
You must choose your people, 
swear your fealty, 
gather your army, 
and fight to defend your home. 
Dark times are upon us - only you can change their course.... 


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages